It's time for a conceptual aside.
Name/Value pairs and objects.
As we talk about JavaScript,
objects are incredibly important, and
we're going to spend
a lot of time on them.
But we need to understand what we're
talking about when we say an object,
in regards to JavaScript itself.
First of all, we need to understand
the term Name/Value pair.
It's quite simple actually.
A Name/Value pair is a name
which maps to a unique value.
Now that name may be
defined more than once,
but it can only have one
value in any given context.
Remember we're talking
about execution context.
So in any particular execution context,
that is,
a section of code that is running,
a name can only exist and
be defined with one value.
However, that value may
be more Name/Value pairs.
Okay, that sounds a little confusing, but
all we're really saying is that there's
a name, and that name is assigned a value,
but that value could be other
collections of name values.
Okay, for example,
this is a Name/Value pair.
You've probably done things
like this all the time in code.
You have a name, a variable, and a value.
In this case, Address is the name and
100 Main Street is the value.
That's a Name/Value pair.
Pretty simple.
Now, when we're talking about objects,
we can then use this Name/Value
pair concept to define them.
An object is a collection
of Name/Value pairs.
That's the simplest possible
definition of an object
when you're talking about JavaScript.
Now, other programming languages
might have more complex concepts
when it comes to objects,
but when we're dealing with objects in
Javascript, that's really what they are.
They're a collection of Name/Value pairs.
So, for example I might have a name and
that name has a value.
But that value might be a couple
of other names and values.
And inside that name, that value
might be other name value pairs.
And I might have a few of these.
So, I have a name and a value, but the
value might be other lists of names and
values, which in turn might have
other lists of names and values.
For example the address example
we had before that was just
a Name/Value pair, here it's
a collection of Name/Value pairs.
Address is a collection of other names and
values.
Address is still the name but
the value is a collection.
Street and Main is a Name/Value pair.
Number and 100 is a Name/Value pair.
Apartment is a name, and
it's value is another list or
collection of Name/Value pairs.
Floor is the name, three is the value.
Number is the name, 301 is the value.
That's an object in JavaScript.
When we're talking about
objects in JavaScript,
we're talking about collections
of Name/Value pairs.
And that value might
itself be another object.
So apartment has a collection of
Name/Value pairs and that's an object.
Address, it's value is an object.
Apartment its value as an object.
You see how they nest down?
Don't think any more deeply about
objects in JavaScript then this.
We're going to see some interesting
things you could do with objects, but
at its core this is what
an object is in JavaScript.
It's just that simple.